---
layout: post
title:  "Kenya"
date:   2020-01-31 00:00:00 -0800
tags:
- Travel
---


Last spring I took a trip to Nairobi, Kenya.

The plane landed in Nairobi at night, about 8:00pm local time. The doors opened and a wave of dry heat flooded the cabin. We departed onto the tarmac, collected our bags, and were ushered onto a small trolly which took us to a hanger. Inside the hanger were several short passport control lines. After about 20 minutes we passed through and then went through security.

Security in Kenya is present everywhere. We were scanned at the airport, at a mall, going into a musuem, and even passed through several checkpoints when going to the residential compound where we were staying. The guards were also usually heavily armed. Despite this security checks seemed gentle compared to many places in the United States, they were less invasive but more frequent. 

We were visiting United States diplomats which may have been a contributing factor. They had diplomatic license plates and passports which often allowed us to skip certain security checkpoints. I'm very curious what a normal United States citizen's experience is like when visiting Kenya.

At the airport the total time to disembark, pass through customs, and reach the street was probably 30 minutes and then we were into the city.

Nairobi is often considered a gateway to eastern Africa. The united nations has one of it's ____ locations there and the Kenyan government leads the ___... Many large international companies have a presence as well and use it as their base of operations for much of eastern Africa.

We were picked up from the airport by my friend...